RHDEVDOCS-4703-edit-prometheusscrapebodysizelimithit-runbook (#94)
openshift/runbooks: alerts/cluster-monitoring-operator/PrometheusScrapeBodySizeLimitHit.md

## Meaning

The `PrometheusScrapeBodySizeLimitHit` alert triggers when at least one
Prometheus scrape target replies with a response body larger than the

> value configured in the `body_size_limit` field in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value configured in the `enforcedBodySizeLimit` field in the
```

`cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.

By default, no limit exists on the body size of scraped targets. When a value

> is defined for `body_size_limit`, this limit prevents Prometheus from consuming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is defined for `enforcedBodySizeLimit`, this limit prevents Prometheus from consuming
```

Author: fixed

    ```

3. If a token exists, decode the token from the secret:

    ```bash
    token=$(oc get secret $secret_name_here -n openshift-monitoring -o jsonpath={.data.token} | base64 -d)
    ```

4. Get the route URL of the Prometheus API endpoint:

    ```bash
    host=$(oc get route -n openshift-monitoring prometheus-k8s -o jsonpath={.spec.host})
    ```

5. List all of the scraped targets with a health status different from `up`:

    ```bash
    curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -k https://${host}/api/v1/targets | jq '.data.activeTargets[]|select(.health!="up")'
    ```

6. Review the response body size of the failing target. Enter the following
   command to simulate a scrape of the target's `scrapeUrl` and view the
   response body size:

    ```bash
    oc exec -it prometheus-k8s-0 -n openshift-monitoring  -- curl -k --key /etc/prometheus/secrets/metrics-client-certs/tls.key --cert /etc/prometheus/secrets/metrics-client-certs/tls.crt --cacert /etc/prometheus/configmaps/serving-certs-ca-bundle/service-ca.crt $scrape_url | wc --bytes
    ```

## Mitigation

Your analysis of the issue might reveal that the alert was triggered by one of
two causes:

> * The value set for `body_size_limit` is too small.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The value set for `enforcedBodySizeLimit` is too small.
```

Author: fixed
